---
layout: page
permalink: /me/
title: me
description: >
  Some more things about me
nav: true
---


### academia

<ins>*research interests*</ins>

Broadly speaking, I'm interested in econometrics &#38; statistics, structural
microeconometrics, and causal inference. I also love programming, especially in Python,
which is why I have a thing for large computational projects. At the moment, my sweet
spot lies in the intersection between the development/extension of methods and their
computer implementation in an extensible/modular fashion. Or if you want to hear some
examples: I'm fascinated by heterogeneous treament effect estimation in causal inference
using classical econometric, but also modern machine learning methods; parameter
estimation and identification in functional data models; life cycle models and their
estimation and solution using standard approaches, but also using novel ideas from
artificial intelligence.

<ins>*work*</ins>

Starting from April, 2022 I work under Prof. Hans-Martin von Gaudecker on computational
projects. The funding is provided by the [TRA 1
Modelling](https://www.uni-bonn.de/de/forschung-lehre/forschungsprofil/transdisziplinaere-forschungsbereiche/tra1).

<ins>*organizer & moderator*</ins>

Currently I organize and moderate the [OSE
Meetup](https://github.com/OpenSourceEconomics/ose-meetup). I took over this position on
November 2021.

<ins>*meta-research interests*</ins>

Like many modern researchers, I care a great deal about reproducibility and the
open-source philosophy. This is why I try to publish almost all of my work on
[GitHub](https://github.com/timmens). If possible I also try to use free software.
Using free software allows researchers with all types of resources to use my projects.
It also happens to be the case that I actually prefer working with these free versions,
e.g. Python > Stata, Linux > Windows/Mac.

<ins>*teaching & supervision*</ins>

For certain projects I help and semi-supervise master students with computational
projects. In 2019 and 2020 I held a week long introductory programming class
([material](https://github.com/timmens/r-course)).

### computers

<ins>*hardware*</ins>

My favorite laptop at the moment is the Lenovo Thinkpad X230 with an i7 processor. It's
super old, but its small, lightweight and you can get one with 16GB RAM and 500GB SSD
for under 350 EUR. I can definitely recommend this laptop for programming. Depending on
the software you run it can actually be blazingly fast.
  
<ins>*software*</ins>

I run debian and arch linux on my two laptops with the window tiling manager i3. I try
to keep my system as lightweight as possible. Yes, because my laptop is very old I
cannot run PyCharm, but editing files with VSCode and especially with Neovim is so fast,
you won't miss a thing. I definitely recommend trying a window tiling manager on your
linux system as well as using the command line as often as possible with the help of vim
(or Neovim).